adoptedStyleSheet property docs (#16773)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/document/adoptedstylesheets/index.md

---
title: Document.adoptedStyleSheets
slug: Web/API/Document/adoptedStyleSheets
tags:
  - API
  - Document
  - Property
  - Reference
  - Stylesheets

>   - adoptedStyleSheets

Reviewer: CSS?

page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.Document.adoptedStyleSheets
---
{{APIRef("CSSOM")}}

The **`adoptedStyleSheets`** property of the {{domxref("Document")}} interface is used for setting an array of constructed stylesheets to be used by the document.

> > **Note:** A constructed stylesheet is one created programmatically using the [`CSSStyleSheet()` constructor](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CSSStyleSheet/CSSStyleSheet) (as compared to one created by a user-agent when importing a stylesheet from a script).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** A constructed stylesheet is a stylesheet created programmatically using the [`CSSStyleSheet()` constructor](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CSSStyleSheet/CSSStyleSheet) (as compared to one created by a user-agent when importing a stylesheet from a script, imported using {{HTMLElement('style')}} and {{CSSXref('@import')}}, or linked to via {{HTMLElement('link')}}).
```

Reviewer: not sure if this edit is a correct comparison, but if it is, we should include the default ways of including stylesheets in case someone happens upon this page.

Author: @estelle Thanks. A constructed stylesheet is just one that is directly created using the `CSSStyleSheet()` constructor in javascript. The `Document` has other `CSSStyleSheet` objects in its stylesheet array, but these are created by the user agent. 

So the comparison I really wanted to draw here is that the programmer creates the object rather than getting handed it by the user-agent. 

I'm happy with your suggestion and will merge. But open to other suggestions.

The same constructed stylesheets can also be shared with one or more {{domxref("ShadowRoot")}} instances using the [`ShadowRoot.adoptedStyleSheets`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/ShadowRoot/adoptedStyleSheets) property.
Changing an adopted stylesheet will affect all the objects that adopt it.

Stylesheets in the property are considered along with the document's other stylesheets.

> For the purpose of determining the final computed CSS of any element, they are considered to have been added _after_ the other stylesheets in the document ([`Document.styleSheets`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document/styleSheets)).

Reviewer: as they are "later",  they take precedence if selectors match, and are unlayered, so take precedence over all other styles. Is there a way to assign them to a layer?

Author: @estelle Good question. This comes from the [very last bullet point in the explainer](https://github.com/WICG/construct-stylesheets/blob/gh-pages/explainer.md#behavior)

> * Stylesheets added to `adoptedStyleSheets` are part of the `DocumentOrShadowRoot`'s style sheets, and they are ordered after  the`DocumentOrShadowRoot`'s `styleSheets`.
>	  * This means when there are conflicting rules in the `adoptedStyleSheets` and `styleSheets` and the resolution will consider the order of stylesheets, they treat the sheets in `adoptedStyleSheets` as ordered later.

I have more accurately captured this in suggestion: https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/16773/files#r888564793

> Is there a way to assign them to a layer?

I don't know, I will ask.

> AS an aside

If you search on "cascade" there are a few links other than your update topic. You might want to cross link to your updated doc (and making sure there are no glaring errors)?  For example https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/Cascade_and_inheritance

Author: @estelle Response from developer to [questions](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1644102#c13):

> Is there a way to assign constructed CSS stylesheet rules to a layer?

Using `@layer` inside the stylesheet just like in a style element.
https://github.com/w3c/csswg-drafts/issues/7002 tracks adding a per-stylesheet
layer.

> For calculating the cascade, the explainer says that if there are rules in conflict that would be resolved by order or import, then the adopted stylesheets come last. The question is, can I assume that they are treated as author origin and that that even if imported in inline javascript, they will not be considered to be inline styles?

Hm? Not sure I follow. Yes, these are always author stylesheets. The order of the stylesheets is 
- Stylesheets in the shadow tree (`<link>` and `<style>`, in tree order)
- Adopted stylesheets (in whatever order the array is).

> Stylesheets in the property are considered along with the document's other stylesheets.
> For the purpose of determining the final computed CSS of any element, they are considered to have been added _after_ the other stylesheets in the document ([`Document.styleSheets`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document/styleSheets)).

Author: @estelle is this better?
```suggestion
Stylesheets in the property are evaluated along with the document's other stylesheets using the [CSS cascade algorithm](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Cascade).
Where the resolution of rules considers stylesheet order, `adoptedStyleSheets` are assumed to be ordered after those in [`Document.styleSheets`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document/styleSheets).
```

Author: PS THank you for the review. Once things cross into CSS land I feel (even more) out of my depth.

### Exceptions

- `NotAllowedError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : One of the {{domxref("CSSStyleSheet")}} instances in the array was not created using the [`CSSStyleSheet()` constructor](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CSSStyleSheet/CSSStyleSheet) or was constructed in a different document than the current document, such as one in a frame.

## Examples

### Adopting a stylesheet

The code below shows a stylesheet being constructed, and then {{domxref("CSSStyleSheet.replaceSync()")}} is called to add a rule to the sheet.
The stylesheet is then added to an array and assigned to the `adoptedStyleSheets` property.

```js
// Create an empty "constructed" stylesheet
const sheet = new CSSStyleSheet();
// Apply a rule to the sheet
sheet.replaceSync('a { color: red; }');

// Apply the stylesheet to a document
document.adoptedStyleSheets = [sheet];
```

We can append a new rule to the stylesheet using {{domxref("CSSStyleSheet.insertRule()")}}. 

```js
 sheet.insertRule("* { background-color: blue; }");
 // The document will now have blue background.
```

> 

Reviewer: can we add an example of adding a new rule into a named layer?

Author: I'm trying to constrain the work done so this can be released _last_ week :-)

I don't know if it is supported. But would you like to do this? 
Note, there is a backlog item for a guide here - https://github.com/mdn/content/issues/16774 - if you don't want to do this and/or  you don't know if it can be done can you please add this as a request in that item?

This is demonstrated below using spread-syntax:

```js
const extraSheet = new CSSStyleSheet();
sheet.replaceSync('p { color: green; }');

// Combine the existing sheets and new one
document.adoptedStyleSheets = [...document.adoptedStyleSheets, extraSheet];
```

## Sharing a stylesheet with a shadow DOM

We can share a stylesheet to a shadow root in a similar way.

```js
// Create an element in the document and then create a shadow root:
const node = document.createElement('div');
const shadow = node.attachShadow({ mode: 'open' });

//Adopt the same sheet into the shadow DOM
shadow.adoptedStyleSheets = [sheet];
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Constructable Stylesheets](https://web.dev/constructable-stylesheets/) (web.dev)
- [Using the Shadow DOM](/en-US/docs/Web/Web_Components/Using_shadow_DOM)
- [`CSSStyleSheet()` constructor](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CSSStyleSheet/CSSStyleSheet)
- {{domxref("CSSStyleSheet.replaceSync()")}}
- {{domxref("CSSStyleSheet.replace()")}}
- {{domxref("CSSStyleSheet.insertRule()")}}

> - {{domxref("CSSStyleSheet.deleteRule()")}}

Reviewer: thinking we may want to also link to @import, style, and `<link>`

Author: I added the same set of related links everywhere which are the bits related to constructible stylesheets. Do @import and link make sense in this context?

The reason I didn't include @import was because you can't use it with constructible stylesheets - see the note against the `text` parameter: https://pr16773.content.dev.mdn.mozit.cloud/en-US/docs/Web/API/CSSStyleSheet/replaceSync#parameters
